README.md, before:

# astroAI

You may clone the repository and move into its root directory to work.

Step1:
```bash
git clone git@github.com:ambra-dipiano/astroAI.git
```

Step2:
```bash
cd astroAI
```

## Environment

This software uses `venv` virtual environment. You are free to use a different solution but requirements compatibility is not guaranteed. 

Step1: 
```bash 
python -m venv astroai
```
Step2: 
```bash
source astroai/bin/activate
```
Step3:
```bash
python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Installation

Once the environment is created and activate, you may install the software.

```bash
pip install .
```

Alternatively you may install in editable mode.

```bash
pip install -e .
```

## Configuration file
How to configure the software.

## Preprocessing pipeline
A single pipeline to manage preprocessing for all different tools.

## Models
An ensamble of deep learning models, with different architctures and goals.

### CNN-based models
A collection of CNN-based models providing a number of different tools for high level analysis.

#### Binary classifier
This model aims to classifying counts maps containing only background signal (class 0) and counts maps containing source and background signal.

#### Image cleaner
This model aims to remove background noise from a counts map.

#### Hotspots regressor
This model aims to localise the coordinates of hotspots in a counts maps, whereas the hotspots have a given minimum Gaussian significance.

#### Background classifier
This model aims to classify various levels of background in a counts map, in order to associate the most appropriate Instrument Response Function.

Commit message:

Release v1 (#16)
* mv models from github to zenodo

* update

* add script option

* usage

* rename templates to add gp

* update

* rm

* update with descriptions

* update

* tools readme

* models readme

* gammapy readme

* paragraphs

* split datasets and code use

* update

* rename typo

* typo

* increase log level

* move env to mamba

* activate mamba env

* update readme

* update function name as sag rel2

* mamba env

* fix paths and clean unused

* add tutorial notebook

* update

* rm irfs saves

* fix path

* update

* rm prints

* rm unused

README.md, after:

# astroAI

You may clone the repository and move into its root directory to work.

Step1:
```bash
git clone git@github.com:ambra-dipiano/astroAI.git
```

Step2:
```bash
cd astroAI
```

## Environment

This software uses [mamba](https://mamba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation/mamba-installation.html) for managing environments. You are free to use a different solution though compatibility is not guaranteed. Once you have installed and activated `mamba` you can proceed with creating the environment.

Step1: 
```bash 
mamba create -n astroai
```
Step2: 
```bash
mamba activate astroai
```
Step3:
```bash
mamba install -f environment.yml
```

## Installation

Once the environment is created and activate, you may install the software.

```bash
pip install .
```

Alternatively you may install in editable mode.

```bash
pip install -e .
```

## Datasets

To run this code you are required to provide DL3 simulations in a compatible FITS format:
- simulation with gammapy
- simulation with ctools
- provided sample datasets [simulations_dataset_v1](https://zenodo.org/)

## Using this code

- You can preprocess data using the instructions in the dedicated [README](./astroai/tools/README.md).
- You can train models anew following the instructions in the dedicated [README](./astroai/models/README.md) or use the provided [cnn_models_v1](https://zenodo.org/).
- You can compare the resuts with the reference real-time analysis pipeline following the instructions in the dedicated [README](./astroai/pipes/README.md).

## Configurations

- A commented configuration template for preprocessing and model training is provided here: [template_cnn.yml](./astroai/conf/template_cnn.yml).
- A commented configuration template to execute the reference rtal-time analysis pipeline is provided here: [template_gp.yml](./astroai/conf/template_gp.yml).
